You'll need the Microsoft .NET Framework installed (it's probably already installed). Extract all and run Creator.exe. Use File > Open to open .x3d files (I included 3). Experiment with the settings under the View menu. Click and drag in the window to change the view. Scroll to zoom in and out, and hold ctrl while scrolling to change your point of focus (if you have View > Arcs enabled, you'll see the arcs getting bigger, or turning upside down. This is because the holding ctrl while scrolling sends the virtual object either farther back behind the canvas (large n-shaped arcs), or closer to the user (u-shaped arcs), in front of the canvas). Use the middle mouse button (or both mouse buttons at once) to pan, or the right moust button to look around. The slider at the top emulates what the user would would see from various viewpoints - drag it back and forth to peer around the object, as you would be able to if standing in front of a printed hologram. If you have red/blue 3d glasses, try that mode out under the View menu - it's a pretty neat effect (make sure to keep the top slider near the center - press 'c' to center). If you have View > Points enabled, a slider to the right appears which controls the number of points per line. Use Tools > Generate Arc File to create a static "arc file" once you find a view you like (set Tools > Arc File Options > Quick Mode for much quicker, but slightly more error-prone generation). This opens the "viewer" where you can save the arc file and open it up again by running Viewer.exe. In the viewer, you can't manipulate the image other than changing the point of reference with the top slider. Arc files are a standard format: x-value for center of arc, y value for center of arc, radius for arc, start angle, end angle. Unless you enable Hidden Line under View (try it, it's neat, especially on the Rings), the start and end angles will all be 135 and 45. It's by manipulating the start and end angles that a hidden-line effect can be achieved. When in the Creator, the arcs are always shown full (if View > Arcs is enabled), but in the Viewer, the proper portion of the arcs are shown